Rofi: Application Launcher and More

Rofi is a lightweight and highly customizable application launcher, window switcher, SSH client, and more. It's a versatile tool for improving workflow efficiency in tiling window managers like Hyperland.
Features to Explore

    Application Launcher:
        Quickly launch installed applications.
        Test with:

    rofi -show drun

    Customize the layout, fonts, and colors using themes.

Window Switcher:

    Switch between open windows.
    Test with:

    rofi -show window

SSH Client:

    Manage and launch SSH sessions.
    Test with:

        rofi -show ssh

    Custom Scripts:
        Create custom scripts for tasks like file navigation or custom command execution.
        Example: Add a power menu for shutdown, reboot, and logout.

What to Check Out

    Themes:
        Install Rofi themes:

yay -S rofi-themes

Apply a theme:

    rofi -theme themes/Monokai.rasi -show drun

Configuration:

    Default config location:

    ~/.config/rofi/config.rasi

    Modify font, colors, and layout to fit your desktop aesthetics.

Keybindings:

    Map Mod+d to launch Rofi as an application launcher in Hyperland:

        bind=Mod+d,exec,rofi -show drun

Useful Resources

    Rofi Themes
    Official Rofi Documentation

Waybar: Status Bar for Wayland

Waybar is a customizable and extensible status bar for Wayland compositors. It integrates with Hyperland to provide system stats, workspace information, and more.
Features to Explore

    Workspace Indicators:
        Displays active and inactive workspaces.
        Configurable in waybar/config.jsonc.

    System Stats:
        Battery level, CPU/RAM usage, network status, etc.
        Modules to check:
            cpu
            memory
            battery
            network

    Custom Modules:
        Add your own scripts for things like music playback or system temperature.

    Styles and Themes:
        Fully customizable using CSS.

What to Check Out

    Install Waybar:

sudo pacman -S waybar

Configuration:

    Config and style files are located at:

    ~/.config/waybar/config.jsonc
    ~/.config/waybar/style.css

Modules:

    Battery: Shows battery percentage and status.

{
  "layer": "top",
  "modules-left": ["workspaces"],
  "modules-right": ["battery", "cpu", "memory", "network"]
}

Network: Displays connection status and IP.
Temperature: Install lm_sensors for sensor data:

    sudo pacman -S lm_sensors
    sensors-detect

Test Waybar:

    Run:

        waybar

What to Explore

    Custom CSS:
        Modify ~/.config/waybar/style.css for colors, padding, and font changes.
        Example:

    #battery {
      color: #00ff00;
    }

Keybindings:

    Add a keybinding in Hyperland to toggle Waybar visibility:

        bind=Mod+b,exec,pkill -USR1 waybar

Useful Resources

    Waybar GitHub
    Module Examples

Summary of What to Check
For Rofi:

    Themes (yay -S rofi-themes).
    Application launcher (rofi -show drun).
    Window switcher (rofi -show window).
    SSH client (rofi -show ssh).
    Custom scripts (e.g., power menu).

For Waybar:

    Workspace modules and system stats (workspaces, cpu, battery, etc.).
    Custom modules and scripts (e.g., temperature monitoring).
    CSS styling for a polished look.
    Keybindings for toggling Waybar visibility.

Would you like help setting up specific configurations for either Rofi or Waybar?
You said:
my monitor is above my laptop but in configuration they seem side to side
ChatGPT said:
GPT Icon

To configure your monitors in Hyperland so that one is positioned above the other (instead of side-by-side), you need to adjust the monitor positioning in the hyprland.conf file using the x and y offsets.
How to Configure Monitors Vertically

    Find Your Monitor Names Use hyprctl monitors to list your connected monitors:

hyprctl monitors

Example output:

Monitor ID: 0
Name: eDP-1
Resolution: 1920x1080
Monitor ID: 1
Name: HDMI-A-1
Resolution: 1920x1080

Note down the monitor names (e.g., eDP-1 for the laptop and HDMI-A-1 for the external monitor).

Set Vertical Positioning Open your Hyperland configuration file (~/.config/hypr/hyprland.conf) and update the monitor definitions to position the external monitor above the laptop. For example:

monitor=eDP-1,1920x1080@60,1,transform,default,x,0,y,0
monitor=HDMI-A-1,1920x1080@60,2,transform,default,x,0,y,-1080

Explanation:

    eDP-1: Laptop monitor is at position x=0, y=0 (bottom monitor).
    HDMI-A-1: External monitor is above the laptop, so its y offset is -1080 (negative height of the laptop monitor).

Reload Configuration Apply the new settings by reloading Hyperland:

    hyprctl reload

Debugging and Fine-Tuning

    Verify Positioning If the monitors don’t align perfectly:
        Adjust the x value to center the external monitor over the laptop:

    monitor=HDMI-A-1,1920x1080@60,2,transform,default,x,100,y,-1080

Enable Cursor Movement Between Screens If the cursor doesn’t transition properly between the two monitors, ensure focus_follow_mouse is set in your config:

    focus_follow_mouse=1

    Test Settings Move windows and your cursor between monitors to ensure the configuration matches your physical setup.

Would you like me to help update your configuration file directly or explain further adjustments?
You said:
I want a keyboard shortcut in wayland/hyprland that will open a file for me to write notes in , formatted with todays date,time, the active directory when i pulled it up, some other notes.
ChatGPT said:
GPT Icon

Creating a keyboard shortcut in Hyperland to open a note file pre-populated with information like the date, time, active directory, and other details can be done with a small script and a custom keybinding. Here’s how to set it up:
